README.md, before:

# programmingCourseDIFA
slides for the programming course of the physics department of the university of Bologna

## online slides
the slides can be seen live at:

[https://unibodifabiophysics.github.io/programmingCourseDIFA/](https://unibodifabiophysics.github.io/programmingCourseDIFA/)

### suggestions for the project

[details about the exam (lesson 00)](./Lesson_00_details_about_the_exam.html)

### general module
[01_introduction](./Lesson_01_introduction.slides.html)

[02_reviewing_fundamentals_of_programming](./Lesson_02_reviewing_fundamentals_of_programming.slides.html)

[03_version_control](./Lesson_03_version_control.slides.html)

[04_testing](./Lesson_04_testing.slides.html)

[05_debugging_and_logging__kill_the_print](./Lesson_05_debugging_and_logging__kill_the_print.slides.html)

[06_Vectorization](./Lesson_06_Vectorization.slides.html)

[07_Scientific_computation_libraries](./Lesson_07_Scientific_computation_libraries.slides.html)

[08_Data_pipelines_and_Snakemake](./Lesson_08_Data_pipelines_and_Snakemake.slides.html)

[09_DataFrame_and_Pandas](./Lesson_09_DataFrame_and_Pandas.slides.html)

[10_object_oriented_programming_sklearn](./Lesson_10_object_oriented_programming_sklearn.slides.html)

### Applied Physics module
[AF_01_random_generation_and_montecarlo](./Lesson_AF_01_random_generation_and_montecarlo.slides.html)

[AF_02_Differential_Equations_analysis](./Lesson_AF_02_Differential_Equations_analysis.slides.html)

[AF_03_continuous_time_random_walks](./Lesson_AF_03_continuous_time_random_walks.slides.html)

[AF_04_random_chain_text_generation](./Lesson_AF_04_random_chain_text_generation.slides.html)

[AF_05_functional_programming_part_1](./Lesson_AF_05_functional_programming_part_1.slides.html)

[AF_06_functional_programming_part_2](./Lesson_AF_06_functional_programming_part_2.slides.html)

[AF_07_command_line_applications](./Lesson_AF_07_command_line_applications.slides.html)

[AF_08_Documentation_and_API](./Lesson_AF_08_Documentation_and_API.slides.html)

## Suggested Books

Effective Computation in Python, O'Reilly
* [http://physics.codes/](http://physics.codes/)


## Reference material

Think Python v2 - free online book
* [https://greenteapress.com/wp/think-python-2e/](https://greenteapress.com/wp/think-python-2e/)

Scipy Lecture Notes - Introduction to the python scientific environment
* [https://scipy-lectures.org/](https://scipy-lectures.org/)

From Python to Numpy - focuses on the **numpy** library for numerical calculations
* [https://www.labri.fr/perso/nrougier/from-python-to-numpy/](https://www.labri.fr/perso/nrougier/from-python-to-numpy/)

### artiles about data analysis and visualization

Tidy Data
* [http://vita.had.co.nz/papers/tidy-data.pdf](http://vita.had.co.nz/papers/tidy-data.pdf)

Data organization in spreadsheets
* [https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.preprints.3183v1](https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.preprints.3183v1)

Data visualization literacy: Definitions, conceptual frameworks, exercises, and assessments
* [www.pnas.org/cgi/doi/10.1073/pnas.1807180116](www.pnas.org/cgi/doi/10.1073/pnas.1807180116)

Ten Simple Rules for Better Figures
* [https://doi.org/10.1371/journal.pcbi.1003833](https://doi.org/10.1371/journal.pcbi.1003833)

Commit message:

added reference to howto repositories

README.md, after:

# programmingCourseDIFA
slides for the programming course of the physics department of the university of Bologna

## online slides
the slides can be seen live at:

[https://unibodifabiophysics.github.io/programmingCourseDIFA/](https://unibodifabiophysics.github.io/programmingCourseDIFA/)

### suggestions for the project

[details about the exam (lesson 00)](./Lesson_00_details_about_the_exam.html)

### general module
[01_introduction](./Lesson_01_introduction.slides.html)

[02_reviewing_fundamentals_of_programming](./Lesson_02_reviewing_fundamentals_of_programming.slides.html)

[03_version_control](./Lesson_03_version_control.slides.html)

[04_testing](./Lesson_04_testing.slides.html)

[05_debugging_and_logging__kill_the_print](./Lesson_05_debugging_and_logging__kill_the_print.slides.html)

[06_Vectorization](./Lesson_06_Vectorization.slides.html)

[07_Scientific_computation_libraries](./Lesson_07_Scientific_computation_libraries.slides.html)

[08_Data_pipelines_and_Snakemake](./Lesson_08_Data_pipelines_and_Snakemake.slides.html)

[09_DataFrame_and_Pandas](./Lesson_09_DataFrame_and_Pandas.slides.html)

[10_object_oriented_programming_sklearn](./Lesson_10_object_oriented_programming_sklearn.slides.html)

### Applied Physics module
[AF_01_random_generation_and_montecarlo](./Lesson_AF_01_random_generation_and_montecarlo.slides.html)

[AF_02_Differential_Equations_analysis](./Lesson_AF_02_Differential_Equations_analysis.slides.html)

[AF_03_continuous_time_random_walks](./Lesson_AF_03_continuous_time_random_walks.slides.html)

[AF_04_random_chain_text_generation](./Lesson_AF_04_random_chain_text_generation.slides.html)

[AF_05_functional_programming_part_1](./Lesson_AF_05_functional_programming_part_1.slides.html)

[AF_06_functional_programming_part_2](./Lesson_AF_06_functional_programming_part_2.slides.html)

[AF_07_command_line_applications](./Lesson_AF_07_command_line_applications.slides.html)

[AF_08_Documentation_and_API](./Lesson_AF_08_Documentation_and_API.slides.html)

## Suggested Books

Effective Computation in Python, O'Reilly
* [http://physics.codes/](http://physics.codes/)

## Repositories with How To's

[https://github.com/physycom/sysconfig](https://github.com/physycom/sysconfig)

[https://github.com/UniboDIFABiophysics/HOWto](https://github.com/UniboDIFABiophysics/HOWto)

## Reference material for the scientific Python programming

Think Python v2 - free online book
* [https://greenteapress.com/wp/think-python-2e/](https://greenteapress.com/wp/think-python-2e/)

Scipy Lecture Notes - Introduction to the python scientific environment
* [https://scipy-lectures.org/](https://scipy-lectures.org/)

From Python to Numpy - focuses on the **numpy** library for numerical calculations
* [https://www.labri.fr/perso/nrougier/from-python-to-numpy/](https://www.labri.fr/perso/nrougier/from-python-to-numpy/)

### artiles about data analysis and visualization

Tidy Data
* [http://vita.had.co.nz/papers/tidy-data.pdf](http://vita.had.co.nz/papers/tidy-data.pdf)

Data organization in spreadsheets
* [https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.preprints.3183v1](https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.preprints.3183v1)

Data visualization literacy: Definitions, conceptual frameworks, exercises, and assessments
* [www.pnas.org/cgi/doi/10.1073/pnas.1807180116](www.pnas.org/cgi/doi/10.1073/pnas.1807180116)

Ten Simple Rules for Better Figures
* [https://doi.org/10.1371/journal.pcbi.1003833](https://doi.org/10.1371/journal.pcbi.1003833)
